I'm trying to create this voice DNA, right? Well, here's the thing. I think I have a lot of journal entries, but I'm not really sure how well they translate to the actual words that I speak. So it's a little tough, but I'm going to give it a shot. This file includes a couple of speeches and a couple of rants. A lot of it might not make sense, or is a little bit old, or is a journal entry, however, They are all decent examples, so I'm going to just throw it in the engine and see what pops.
Another thing I want to do is actually talk into my mic to help build and bolster this voice DNA with actual content in the way that I speak.
So if anything, it's probably best to pull from this intro for the voice DNA because it's me speaking into my mic.
Although I really do like my lexicon and word choice and a lot of my intellectual deep dives, so do not completely dismiss everything else.
The idea is to include so many different things that no single writing style really gets captured all the way. I wish there was a way for the voice DNA to take into account other things too. Or maybe I just ramble and rant and I'll find a different way. Maybe this is the fun part of me actually talking.




Do you remember those clock salesmen 
You know, the really shady ones in the trench coats 
The ones that would suspiciously go up to children on the playground and be like, [open up their coats?]
"Pssst…hey kid…come here…you wanna buy a watch?"
Anyway I had this nightmare one time this guy was selling me, not clocks, but human kidneys from his jacket
He approached me on the basketball court, his coat dripping with blood, and was like: 
"Hey kid the name's Greasy Ernie, wanna buy a kidney?"

People like Greasy Ernie do exist, they just live in china, 
and instead of selling kidneys from their trench coat 
They just kill and harvest the organs from Muslims and political prisoners 
Yes…that's a real thing

Anyway, you know what would be way cooler than having our kidneys ripped from our slaughtered bodies and sold to Chinese social elites?
Is if we could do things the American way, and get paid for our kidneys, safely and regulated of course. 
You know [finger gun/point] - I know a few diabetic children who are literally DYING to have them

In fact, thousands of people die every year waiting on an organ donation, while over a hundred thousand more rot away on the 'waiting list', suffering through painful and expensive medical procedures like dialysis 

An article from Reason magazine on August 14 2019 affirms that "If the U.S. allowed people to sell [their kidneys], th[at] waiting list …would soon disappear"

That’s why we must lift. the prohibition. of organ sales.

Shit's wild, like, guys, comm-on, this-is-a-no-brainer! 

It's our right to do what we want with our bodies, and by giving people - choice…we can very literally save thousands lives. 

Historically however, establishing a market for organs has largely been considered taboo. 
Even though -- Cash for kidneys has a pretty great ring to it, there are, understandable, concerns that arise with this kind of freedom.

For example, some argue that allowing a market for organs would exploit the poorest in society. Obviously only the truly poor and desperate would resort to carving out pieces of their body. 

It's also believed you don't have the right to sell your body because well, God owns it. To put a price on something so sacred, a body made in God's image, is anti-Christian. It’s a similar argument against abortion and prostitution, and probably why catholic priests find the bodies of their little altar boys as beautiful as God himself. 

I however would like to counter these arguments, breathe some fresh air into the debate 
And present a rational, and moral alternative  

I want to first concede and say…if we had cash for kidney's program, the homeless, the downtrodden, Greasy Ernie  and the starving open mic artists, would rush to get a quick fortune. 

That’s why, instead of --cash for kidney's-- I'm suggesting we explore alternative options for financial incentives, like health care credits, debt forgiveness, 401K contributions, or even buy one get one free gall bladders! 

We send poor people off to die in the middle east all the time, but oh, providing benefits to organ donors is off limits? By limiting options, we aren't saving anyone from exploitation, we are doing a disservice to those in need.

Now full transparency I'm agnostic and think God is probably just some stage 5 alien civilization, or that we're all in a simulation. But what I can say, is that... Anyone who declares that some God, group or government owns your body, is full.of.shit. Roe v wade and the declaration of independence long establish the precedent to self. ownership. YOU own yourself and can do whatever you want with your body. 



Ok wait this is a hilarious story, 
So my uncle patsy used to be in a Jersey shore- classic rock -- bar band -- called the swinging Johnsons (haha a penis, get it?)
ok That has nothing to do with the story it's just hilarious
Now jolly ol'uncle patsy works at disney world right, as one of those photographers
--Basically he gets paid to take pictures of kids all day--
And -- just like Mr. Walt Disney himself - Uncle patsy doesn't have functioning kidneys

Without going too much into it, He got a staph infection while undergoing surgery and the antibiotics poisoned his already shriveled kidneys. Has been going to dialysis for 3 days a week, 6 hours a day for the past 12 years.

Knowing he could have been living a normal life, it's honestly just fucked

My uncle is one of those hundred thousand 
Stuck waiting on the organ donor list, 
Waiting on a kidney which will never come
Waiting for the rest of his life

In closing, to quote the great Greasy Ernie:
"wait, it's illegal to sell kidneys? pft, that’s total bull shit"

Hopefully, You. Now. Know. More-about the. Debate. On. organ-markets,… then you ever wanted to
And -- that's all I could have ever wanted



On a Halloween night 14 years ago, 
A mysterious computer scientist posted a whitepaper to an obscure mailing list

It was a blueprint to a revolutionary digital invention 

October 31st 2008 will go down in history as the day Pandora's box was opened
...when an irreversible curse was cast on humanity

As it turns out, this digital invention was actually an unstoppable computer cancer
Set loose into cyberspace!

1.

…and now...
...14 years later…
...it has spread to the point of no return.

What’s even more scary is -

This shadowy mastermind, this mad computer scientist, disappeared, like a ghost, and remains unknown to this very day

No one even knows if they are dead or alive, and yet he or she is currently worth of over 20 billion dollars 

They are projected to be the richest human on earth in less than 5 years
(ha sorry Elon)
And their invention will change the course of human civilization forever

2.

This is a Halloween story scarier than any other
Because this story, is real.

The invention I was talking about ^
Well you probably know it best as “digital gold”
but isn't gold at all…

In fact Bitcoin is actually orange
Like the color palate from the holiday in which it spawned...this Halloween nightmare has quite the interesting story …. 

For you see, the unknown inventor of bitcoin, satoshi nakamoto, was a Cypherpunk

3.

The Cypherpunks were a group of digital liberty advocates and anarchists,
A bunch of nerds back in the 80s and 90s who were terrified of a future Orwellian surveillance state

They decided to take freedom into their own hands
Creating technology that no government or corporation could stop

Bitcoin is the result of decades of research by the cypherpunks
It is a fundamental breakthrough in computer science and cryptography 
Eliminating the need to trust in third parties like banks, corporations, and governments. 
This is trust in math, trust in code, not in humans. 

4.

I knew about bitcoin for about 9 years, but in hindsight I didn't know anything
Knowing about bitcoin, and realizing what bitcoin ACTUALLY is, are two very different things

Once I learned what bitcoin ACTUALLY was, I became terrified, and would spend 4-8 hours a day every day, for over a year, literally hundreds of hours, trying to find the catch, 
Only becoming more and more convinced that there is no way to stop this thing 

Bitcoin is the number one cryptocurrency for a reason, it’s the largest and most secure supercomputer on earth
Bitcoin is immortal. It can’t be shut down, it can’t be hacked, it can’t be changed, and it can’t be controlled.

5.

The bitcoin virus is untreatable and extremely contagious, it's the best money ever made, and hijacks human greed to imbed itself further and further into society. It's a money that's out of control

You might be wondering, what's the point, what's the end game? 

The cypherpunks created Bitcoin for a single purpose, to remove humans from the issuance and control of money. And the corruption that comes with it. Bitcoin is the separation of money and state. 

6.

I'm mostly spreading the word because I think bitcoin is fucking crazy
I'm not saying you should buy any, I'm here to warn you. 

If you don't remember anything else about bitcoin, just remember this one thing: No one controls bitcoin, and there's nothing anyone can do to stop it. 

On October 31st 2008 human civilization was changed forever.

Grab your popcorn, cus the next 20 years are about to get fucking wild



Today is Friday the 13th oooo spoookyy, I woke up as a sweat ball on the couch at 5 and I laid there in annoying sad soup for an hour and then said fuck it and took a cold shower which literally is so good, took a walk, went to lakawana and sat in the back and was mindful. Then I walked with my coffee to the pier and listened to a podcast with Jeff Booth and Austin Hill and I'm just so happy I found really smart people to follow and that I found my place in this world. The future is gonna be fucking nuts and I'm happy to be fighting alongside some amazing people. 

Went to bed tired because I was researching for my bitcoin speech again lol. I got in a groove and then a rabbit hole, and I decided not to associate bitcoin with starting a mass liquidation even though I guess it's technically possible.  But this morning I got up on time, at first I was like oh eh sleepy, but then I remembered I was gonna meet Xhjesi today and it made me happy and I shot right up. I took a cold shower, although it wasn't as hype as it's been probably because I was freakin exausted, and then I pitter pattered through floor time, listening to music, drinking espresso, and packing for work, and I realized I was hungry and didn't want to buy lunch so I made eggs with rice and toast with hummus and so I was def late, BUT it was so worth it. I had a great walk to the path, I have to remember to go down newarkaave every morning I love the rush of people and the sunlight. Oh I remembered to finally mail Rondell and Sage's wedding RSVP lol. Ok so the walk to work was nice and I still hate the path but at least I can do a body scan and be mindful. And I walked from 42nd instead of 33rd because I was late although the walk definitely wasn't enough, I just hate being sweaty and carrying my backpack all that way. Sigh it's tough, maybe should just get in earlier and go for a walk but I digress. I wore my blue button down today (and black jeans and vans of course) no jacket for the first time going to work!!! It was so freakin nice today. And still there has been a lack of bugs, I really appreciate that


Shit this might turn into another long entry, what a great day. Got up helllaa tired, but still went into work because of how nice of a day it was gonna be, also I wanted to be dressed nice for Emily and Devyn dinner. I got up and immediately stretched and listened to music, that got me enough energy to go to the bathroom and unlike yesterday my cold shower was hype af and I very much enjoyed it. We'rewolf was the song that got me smashed haha. Anyway I took my time listening to music again but by the time I left I was so wide awake that I cut up the big box from my air conditioner and brought it down with me. Beautiful walk in the morning, I took the long way from 33rd and I didn't bring lunch today so my bag was light enough. Work was ok I sat far away from people which was a little sad but I was pretty busy so that aspect of it was nice. Ended the day with like 3/4 emails which is freakin legendary. Got a free Dos toros burrito from the kitchen, idk who was organizing but that was a stroke of luck. And I even took a walk to Bryant park during lunchtime just to enjoy the weather. I was just watching everyone sitting around, watching the people talking and reading and drawing and talking and I noticed all of the different characters. There was people juggling in the grass and so many people just sitting around and eating it was just so nice to see I felt so invisible among all the people. After work I decided to walk to The Smith where Emily and Devyn and I were eating and I have to say Devyn was non-committal until the very last half hour lol I wasn't sure if she was coming. I think I wasn't a 100% GC but I was basically at 80% so I was doing pretty good. Had a lot of great convos and really got a great debrief. Devyn is a strategist at hello fresh, on the brand side, and the way she described it is that she brings the creative to life, as opposed to doing the creating.

I hate to be a doomsayer, and maybe this is all bias and I'm totally crazy and bought into some kind of propaganda...but I don't think so

I've been actively following politics/economics since the great financial crisis, 
I studied econ in school, listened to so many podcasts, read books/the news, and watched countless youtube videos, following social media pages and just straight up obsessed tbh
I've been tracking what's going on for well over 13 years at this point
And I'm pretty much convinced at this point our current trajectory is unstable, and that the people in power have no idea what's going on or what's going to happen
This is the greatest economic experiment in the history of mankind
I don't know when this shit is gonna pop off, but the last year and a half have changed our situation so quickly, it just feels so imminent 
Every currency in the world is susceptible, and to be honest bitcoin is still too early 
I could see it easily fail as a store of value for the sole reason that there's just not enough people using it yet. Like it's trajectory is legendary, but unless we hold off for 3-7 years bitcoin might fall along with everything else
It's almost like the only safe things aren't liquid, real estate will ironically be one of the few safe options, but I'm sure it'll still take a huge hit
Stocks, bonds, options, everything is gonna crash
This might be the boog or at least complete social unrest
I think the pandemic is going to be blamed, and the whole "no one saw it coming" will be said but that's bullshit things are fucking wack right now
The pandemic will look as inconsequential as 9/11 does now once the depression starts
I have to prepare 


Nothing is more certain in our lives than the unrelenting march of time

Often there are so many possibilities, but only one way things turn out in this universe and timeline
Because of the scarcity of time, events and art and discoveries are locked into a certain position, which makes them valuable
For example, the events that lead a certain person or group of people to make music, is further narrowed by the decade in which they exist. A decade is a long time, but only a certain amount of albums by a limited number of artists can actually be created. Only a limited number of dedicated and talented artists will create and finalize and promote a good piece of work in a period of time, and those works will be historic for the very reasons they encompassed the sound and zeitgeist of that era 


I always considered Socrates to be a proponent of agnosticism, that knowledge/truth is inherently unattainable, but I see now that his way is not to say that all you believe is wrong, but that it could be wrong. 

It is the philosophy of humility, but also of conviction. It is about asking questions to understand why someone holds a different view from you, but not to outright reject all that you know, or to waver in your confidence in the views that you have arrived to with reason.

When presented with different information, we must be open to those arguments, and humble when proven wrong, but not be cowardly and wavering at every disagreement. 

It's a reminder that the truth is out there, some people might be right about some things, and wrong about others, and you might be wrong about some things and right about others. 

My personal problem is that I'm an intellectual coward, I am too far away from the moral mean in the opposite direction. I have limited faith in the knowledge and conclusions that I have reached even though I have gone through extensive bouts of reason to arrive at those conclusions. I have taken many arguments into consideration, and refined my views over a very long period of time. My agnosticism has manifested into an indifference to the truth, giving up on finding it because it's too complicated, or an outright absence in conviction in the fear of being wrong. 

I need to take a stand on my values, but also be open to critique. I need to be confident in my reason, strong in my arguments, and intelligent in my questioning of reality and of the opinions of others. 




So I'm trying to explore arguments in the multi-chain vs bitcoin maxi theories, and Cardano's founder made an interesting point in that we really don't know which one is going to win, but all serious defi developers are talking about a multi-chain ecosystem, and I do think that's a fair point to make. I know deep down that there will be a multisystem for a while, and maybe forever, and while bitcoin has the strongest fundamentals, it's the wild west out there and people are dumb and greedy, so less perfect systems might get adopted (meaning not as decentralized) and they might even prosper, but ol'bessie bitcoin won't be going anywhere anytime soon, and as long as it remains true.  
His argument for why bitcoin isn't like TCP/IP is that there was no token for the early internet, and the incentives are different, there was no financial incentive for competitors, where big business would have a stake in creating an alternative system which is what eth/cardano are basically doing. He says the choice of system comes down to the social components, usability components and technological capabilities, he's saying he's going to outperform bitcoin and the ecosystem and the network effects don't matter in the long run.  

-bitcoin from a moral perspective, true decentralization matters at the base layer, and there's a 21 million cap, monetary policy set in stone and can't be changed by humans. Is that why I like bitcoin more than the other projects? 
The 'can't be changed by humans' part is important, but it was a monetary policy also created by a human. Just putting that out there. 
And is the full encryption aspect of the lightning network and its applications truly what people want? I don't know I'm trying to ask myself the hard questions. Like if there was the layer 3 music app, and I paid taylor swift directly for streaming her song, wouldn't she want to know who I was so that she could advertise towards me? Try to sell tickets when she comes by my area? Advertising sucks but it does make the world go round. What are layer 3 privacy protections if mass communication isn't interested in those individual protections? I guess you could say bitcoin is trying to do the right thing, and whether or not that will lead to single chain defi depends on whether or not humanity choses to do it that way. But wait, another thought, doesn't defi on bitcoin not have to be anonymous? There could be additional layer 2's that aren't as private as the lighting network. 

-I think the most likely scenario is that multiple systems will transfer value, (automatic exchange rates could exist, but the argument about the coincidence of wants is strong) and it will centralize into which blockchains are leveraged, second layer defi instruments will probably wrap bitcoin in one way or another simply because it's the perfect asset, and it's on a blockchain, and lack of third party simplifies it's use. So either way, bitcoin wins, even if I wanted to buy an nft on etherem I could in the future with bitcoin and it might even be super cheap for me due to how much it appreciates.  
 
There's nothing inherently important about defi remaining only on bitcoin except for the interoperability and decentralization aspect. If etherem is actually decentralized then it can serve a great role in the blockchain future. However, if centralization occurs, bitcoin will always be there to swoop in. 
There is also a lot of people who believe in bitcoin as the single protocol, and while even though there are a lot of people who don't, it's still a community working towards solutions on top of bitcoin, to do everything that the other cryptos are trying to do. 

Lets face it when the coincidence of wants starts to become a real problem, and all the other defi projects are slow in solutions due to their complexity, bitcoin will be there to swoop in. people will always want to be paid in bitcoin if given the choice, and exchanges/defi/smart contracts will have bitcoin integration as part of the multi-chain ecosystem, or at least a way to swap them easily. 

That is really the big gamble on bitcoin. That people will always want to be paid in it, if given the choice. It's the Austrian hard money theory that I'm kind of predicating a lot of my assumptions on. I'm also assuming that even though bitcoin is behind on defi projects, that it will catch up and exceed others due to its slow and steady approach, vs the start fast and throw shit at the wall and see what sticks kind of method. 

Fuck I think he's right. The alts are annoying and not going away, and I shouldn't be so certain that bitcoin won't lose the arms race just because it has a head start and because it's got the best fundamentals. There are other factors at play that might be impossible to consider. I should have a little socrates on my shoulder saying 'you don't know anything'. I buy bitcoin because I believe in its fundamentals, I believe in its ability to subvert the state and its pure form of property ownership. I love bitcoin because it was the thing that started it all, and it's ingenious design and architecture. I believe in bitcoin because it does one thing and does it really well. I trust bitcoin because it isn't going away any time soon, and if it for some reason had no further development on it whatsoever, it would still be one of the top digital assets ever made. We just gotta stay in the know, and be ready for if the tide changes. 



To keep up with AI we will need to plug our brains into the internet, right? That’s Elon’s whole thing? So each human will be like a super human capable of more than entire governments today. In that world, hyper individualism becomes absolutely paramount. There’s no more need for nation states or top down control of any kind. We’ve made it obsolete 
Humanity can solve all ills and live in utopia
Also very literally plugging into bitcoin lol
I wonder how bitcoin’s strength will last through this era


I was trying to be honest with myself, and really dig deep to see if there were flaws in all of the arguments, im usually good at playing devil's advocate and it's healthy to do it with bitcoin because I don't want to get lost in the sauce, my mind is not for rent to any god or government, and bitcoin is kind of like a god. The only flaws I can see in bitcoin, the true worst case scenario, is that network effect doesn't matter, and blockchains are judged based on their merit. And if that's the case, all things held equal, the only thing that bitcoin has going for it is that it was the genesis block. By being the only coin decentralized from the beginning, can it's simplistic structure support the new web? I then realized that crypto itself is super decentralized and full of healthy competition. Every new innovation, is like handing humanity a tool it's never had before. I don't think bitcoin will be the only chain, and I think state/corporate chains are going to have many use cases, bitcoin will always exist though, and no one can do anything about it. And even if some countries make it illegal to work on bitcoin, it will always be legal somewhere. The UN would have to be extremely dystopian to crack down on a global effort, which is highly unlikely. Bitcoin would have to be classified as a protocol dangerous to humanity too work on, but then it has so much invested behind it, no countries will want to part with their stake if it gets too big. Also a super important thing I just realized, china and the US are the only countries to have a significant amount, unlike gold this is an asset almost no state actors have a large stake in. 

I truly think that being first is a huge advantage, and having a network as decentralized is a huge selling point, as is bitcoin is still good, and all that matters is that other people think bitcoin matters, and boy does it have publicity. All news is good news and it's just controversial enough that people go back and forth a little bit. 

I used to be worried about institutional adoption, but I realize that's so selfish. Developers are going to work on it no matter what the price is, and it's not going anywhere. Getting rich on it isn't the point. The point is the disruption. 

I'm more convinced that bitcoin is better than I think it is. 
No one knows what will happen, but the ride is exciting
No one knows to what degree it's going to change the world, but we know it's going to. 
And if you think about it, bitcoin was the catalyst, no matter what happens this whole revolution was started because of the cypherpunks


I think my prior knowledge of bitcoin helped me accurately depict the tipping point. 
The tipping point was probably a lot earlier, historians might say it was inevitable from the start, 
literally inevitable by design. 
But in my own risk vs reward way, I think I noticed the asymmetric opportunity. That's all this is, an asymmetric understanding of the market. It's very normal and it happens all the time in the world. People get convinced about something, they act on it, when they're right they get rewarded. I don't know why I think deep down that I'm always wrong about everything. I don't know if it's an internal socrates or some deep rooted self-esteem issues, 

I think I give etherum a __% chance of survival
It's either network effects don't matter, (in which case an eth killer will come along, maybe in 25 years, and based on merit alone be the master blockchain, with incentive structures strong enough to convince people to leave legacy projects, and congregate) or network effects do matter and bitcoin wins. But it's not about bitcoin winning, it's about bitcoin being an option for people, it's about bitcoin always being there to send value through the internet. As long as it exists, it will hold value, and that's really what I'm rooting for at the end of the day. I think we caught it early enough for it to make my life and my family's life easy 

Another thing I recently considered, is what makes people want to zero in on a single blockchain? There could be a few different reasons the ecosystem starts to cluster, but one obvious one is the coincidence of wants, and not wanting too many currencies to exchange. There's definitely a limit of the total, who knows how we would calculate it, but the point is that its easier and more adventitious to reduce the amounts of currency swaps needed, which gives bitcoin the advantage.

No one is trying to compete with bitcoin anymore, I've heard that thrown around, bitcoin is the money, it's the decentralized one, and other crypto projects have moved on, and are focused on the other 'ten thousand' blockchain use cases. 
Bitcoin is the 'digital gold' store of value because of its security, and it's network. 
If you know the crypto space, you know that bitcoin is uncontested.
Bitcoin is the currency. 
And if bitcoin is the currency - then shit is gonna hit the fan. 
It's pretty much a guarantee at this point, and that’s why I'm so giddy about it
It's not that it's gonna go up in price, yes that's true but it's a byproduct for what is really going on. 
That's what people really need to understand, it's a money that's out of control
It's fundamentals are too enticing for humans to pass, they're drawn to it because of greed. 
It's a preprogrammed fact of human nature. 
I really could see this as something potentially apocalyptic if it was used for evil
If a virus was crafted in a lab
To be extremely contagious
And be spread throughout the world before anyone realized what was going on
And like a frog in boiling water, we can't react in time
And like a virus, bitcoin takes victims
Like a black hole, it slowly works to absorb all of humanity's resources 
Bitcoin can easily hold all of the wealth on earth, it's (almost) infinitely divisible, and every time someone puts their wealth into bitcoin, it just makes everyone else richer
It's going to go berserk long before any other chains, no one has the supply crunch before bitcoin, and I think the rest of crypto realizes that
Like what if this fucks up humanity
Like seriously 
What if this goes south
We're way beyond bitcoin succeeding or not, we're thinking long term, how does anything compete with bitcoin? 
It's too good
Could there possibly be a dark side to ultra sound money?
What if it's a deflationary spiral? 
An all-consuming deflationary spiral that takes down the entire global economy, and is a catalyst for future wars?
Like that can't be ruled out
Bitcoin chaos theory



You have a situation, of a great financialization, where everyone's money is tied up into the stock market. Everyone's retirement accounts. Even everyone's money in the bank too is involved in this great thieving of society, because of fractional reserve banking. They keep credit cheap, to boost the economy so that everyone feels good. The Keynesians and utilitarians are right about that, boosting aggregate demand by central command can efficiently keep unemployment low and the civilization comfortable. Wall street has put the central bank in a tight spot, any fiscal responsibility whatsoever will be met with a crisis. The great financialization, go towards where the money spicket flows, the catellion effect


Inflation is just the free market slowly fixing prices to their actual level, kind of like sand moving through an hourglass 


I want to teach (specifically bitcoin but in general) because I hate jargon as a barrier to entry to understand different topics. Every academic field, every study, every world of knowledge has its own language and there’s literally no interoperability, you have to understand the terms if you want the context to understand a higher order of complexity, and it pisses me the fuck off. I’m smart enough to understand anything I put my mind to, but I’m not good at words, and needing to understand terminology and the proprietary jargon for each interesting thing in this life just is too time consuming for me. 

Not only is bitcoin the hardest money ever created, but it’s also the most secure
Not only will it’s price go up because of limited supply stock to flow, but it’s demand will go up because its not debased, because it’s not manipulated or corruptible. It’s security is its differentiator, and even if people only use it for store of value for the next 100 years it doesn’t matter
It’s important that we keep it incorruptible, we make sure there’s no gate keeper layer 2s like gold backed certificates 
We have to make sure there’s no call to manipulate its price in some way or to control its flow
Property rights are foundational for civil society

The way that I personally fell down the rabbit hole was actually learning about how bitcoin worked, I was so interested in the math behind cryptography, the super huge numbers, and one way hashing algorithms. If I’m remembering correctly, then I remember the day I listened to bitcoin audible for the first time, I had looked up the difference between proof of work and proof of stake, and I was just blown away at how secure bitcoin was, that was when I discovered the podcast and loved how intellectually stimulating it was, and also that it had such a libertarian angle


I have to remember my humble and shy beginning and how I don’t think I could have gotten there on my own, how I was a late bloomer and can’t be judgmental of where people are in their journey so far, just recognizing their core is just and ethical, and that they have potential to be something great for the world. 

My responsibility is to be selfless but not compromising, and to be selfish enough to get me to a place where I can focus my attention on what matters, instead of bleeding dry before I get there.


Bitcoin can't ever go to zero
Because even if everyone else sold it, I would buy every last one from you
And guess what? There are MILLIONS of people like me who would also be happy to buy it from you
You don't understand bitcoin culture,
It's completely a cult 
Bitcoiners are feverously passionate, uncompromising, and autistic as all hell
Bitcoin is the best money ever made
And we know it
We'll start our own economy and you can keep your bullshit government money
Your surveillance, debased, manipulated, ponzi scheme, failing currency
You have no idea, you guys are so fucked 
You can come to our side if you want, whenever you want. 
Bitcoin will always exist
And we'll be over here with our own economy
One based on peaceful, fair and neutral money 

Bitcoin can't ever go to zero because it's extremely useful
And by even thinking it's a possibility, it's obvious you don't understand what you're dealing with



**PS if there's ever a "bug" introduced or network compromising attack, bitcoin can just hard fork and shed it's skin and you get an equal amount of tokens on the new chain. Therefore even if you somehow managed to kill it, (which is almost impossible) there's a failsafe, literally making it unstoppable.  


• Bitcoin is the first system of money that is not controlled by any single entity, that is completely decentralized
	○ No one can hack bitcoin, no one can change it's code, it runs completely on it's own
	○ People can design around it, make wallets, trading platforms, lightning fast payment channels, and overall develop new complex financial infrastructure around this new money, but still the base layer money stays the same. 
• Bitcoin can't ever be shut down, it updates it's ledger about every 10 minutes, and is designed to do this forever.
	○ Bitcoin is the largest supercomputer on earth, in fact if every other supercomputer combined their computing power they still wouldn't be able to stop it 
	○ Bitcoin is like the entire United states military being used to fortify one small playground, somewhere deep in the rocky mountains. 
	○ It has a completely over the top security structure in order to keep itself alive, and keep the ledger from being corrupted. 
• Bitcoin is a global network of tens of thousands of computers running the same free open source software 
	○ It is a peer-to-peer network, where every computer can communicate with any other computer directly, there's no central server processing all of the data, every computer is participating in the network
	○ It's kind of like a big mushroom, there's not really a brain it's all just one big blob
	○ Or you could even think of bitcoin as the brain itself, with electricity pulsing throughout the network to build one self-sufficient, autonomous, system. 
• Each of these computers is keeping track of a ledger, basically a long list. They are keeping track of every bitcoin transaction ever made
	○ When someone makes a bitcoin transaction every computer in the network (the nodes) updates their ledger, therefore bitcoin is on all of its computers at all times.



○ Bitcoin is not just a money on the internet, bitcoin is the internet of money.
	○ The internet is programmable information. It's unrestricted, global, instantly transferable information, 
	○ Bitcoin is programmable money, it's unrestricted, global, and instantly transferable money
	○ The internet is a protocol that can be built upon. Bitcoin is a money that can be built upon. 
	○ The internet has allowed the coordination of humanity on a scale never before seen in human history, allowing for ideas and revolutions to spread like wildfire. 
	○ Bitcoin allows for unrestricted financing, it's pairing global coordination with unrestricted payments and fundraising. 
With bitcoin, revolutions will never be the same


It's pretty much guaranteed at this point, bitcoin's whole purpose is that it can't be shut down.
I've tried so hard to find a weakness, but its security is very literally unparalleled 
You can create whatever forks you want, bitcoin will always exist. And there will never be more than 21 million. That kind of security guarantee is unique to both blockchains and the entire digital realm. You can use that bedrock foundation for so many things, all programmable on top of bitcoin. It's more than a coin, it's a financial system.  


I'm betting that in at least 30-50 years (more-so on the sooner side) there is going to be a market correction that unwinds the absolutely staggering amount of leverage in our current system, and it's not gonna be pretty. We live in a world where all of the banks, governments, and corporations are in mountains of debt, the price of money is completely arbitrary, and there's no end in sight to all of this fiscal irresponsibility. Our society is structurally on a great big house of cards. It's extremely irresponsible, and someone will have to pay for it all. The great deleveraging will probably be the worst financial crisis in world history. Bitcoin is insurance against the failure of legacy financial system. 

 the time you spend laboring is what is getting warped here, you could be making more for your time if it wasn't syphoned off. You could be doing a lot with that time, you could work less, vacation longer, and retire earlier. Very literally theft above and beyond direct taxation, 
Money is time and energy
By controlling people's energy you control their movement, their actions. Where they go, what they eat, drink, where they sleep. By shutting off people's money or controlling it, you can control their internet and their cell phone. You can stop them from buying or renting a home, or a car, or a train ticket. You can literally stop them from accessing their life savings.  




